# Reflection

## Project Overview

Our project, MBTA Helper, is a website that returns the nearest MBTA station when an address is entered. It consists of two python files (one implementing Flask, another defining all our functions to find locational data) and three html files (one form page, one results page, one error page). Our Flask python file takes the index html file as an input and runs the functions in our mbta_helper python file and utilizes the results and error html files as outputs. In addition to the basic requirements we utilized a bit of CSS when implementing the error.html and results.html page. We also used javascript to validate the forms; if the user does not input any address, then the alert pops up to tell the user to input values. We chose not to validate conjunctions (e.g. and) because these words can be included in the address.

## Project Reflection

On the geocoding and API portion of the project, having the scaffolding for the function gave us a good headstart on trying to conceptualize the problem. From there understanding the process of modifying the URLs to accommodate the API and acquired parameters was fairly simple; however, difficulties arose in acquiring the exact numbers (such as latitude and longitude) from the json file due to its complexity. Additionally, getting accurate coordinates from MapQuest was troublesome as without explicitly including “Boston” and “MA” in the search, it would find coordinates from far away locations even for very Boston-specific landmarks such as Fenway Park and Boston Common. Testing the code went well as we took it function by function to make sure each step worked with dummy code before connecting it all together. The experience of using APIs and parsing json files will prepare us well for our future final project as those are abilities that we will utilize once again with Twitter and news websites. Overall, this portion of the project was an exciting look at data acquisition in a real-world scenario and was a good place to display the skills we have learned thus far in the course.

Some problems we had using Flask was how the form page was present during an error. This occurred when we implemented the error condition on our index.html page. We were able to resolve this issue by creating an entirely new error.html page for our code to reroute to when the output was out of index range. When implementing our code for Flask, we tested whether python pulled the variables correctly from the index form by using print throughout the code. We also utilized this to see whether or not our code worked and the appropriate output was given. After doing so, we worked on where we wanted the output to end up (i.e. which html page). Since we weren’t too familiar with Flask, we read the Flask documentation for requests and forms to understand the relationship between the python and html files. We also utilized some HTML knowledge to code output pages. We can take what we learned in this assignment and apply it to our final project to understand the relationship between different python and html files. We also understand how to pull data from third party sites better and can use that as a foundation for our project. Things we wish we knew include understanding Flask more and the functions it has in order to implement more features such as validation.

The project was appropriately scoped and provided a challenging but do-able assignment for our team’s experience in python. In terms of delegating the work, we have divided up the coding part and met after each person finished their part. We had to help each other out in the process of changing the codes and debugging the program. Once each person updated the coding, we met in person for any changes and made plans for the project. We have completed our work mostly on time, and the group work was very efficient in terms of communications and collaboration. There were no particular team conflicts or issues throughout the group assignment. Despite having limited resources and constraints, our team effectively helped and supported each other to accomplish our goals.